Bismillah irrahman irrahim
In the name of Allah, the most gracious, the most merciful.
Subhanallah wa rahmanillah wa la ilaha illallah
Par excellence presents
wa la ilaha illallah
Lessons from the stories of the prophets
by Mufti Ismail ibn Musa Menk
Adam, alayhi salam, on earth, part 2
Adam, peace be upon him, on earth, part 2
Assalamu alaykum wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuh
Bismillah irrahman irrahim
Alhamdulillahi rabbil alameen
wa s-salatu wa s-salamu ala al-mab'uth
Rahmatan lil alameen
Nabi'ina Muhammadin wa ala alihi wa ashabihi ajma'ina wa ba'd
All praise is due to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Blessings and salutations upon Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to bless him and all his companions
to bless every single one of us
to bless our offspring those to come up to the day of Qiyamah
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
keep them all steadfast on this deen
and may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
keep us as well steadfast on the deen
This evening as we were
reading the Salah, the Taraweeh
a thought came to my mind
and that is a hadith of the prophet salallahu alayhi wa sallam
narrated by Aisha radiallahu anha
she says that she used to watch the prophet salallahu alayhi wa sallam
read Salah at night
so often
most of the night, almost all of the night
to the degree that his feet became swollen
and she asked him a question
she says, oh messenger of Allah
salallahu alayhi wa sallam
Allah has kept you free from sin
and Allah has forgiven you
in fact, anything to come
and anything that was, there is nothing
you have such a high rank
you are so high, you know your rank
so why is it that you are spending so much time
in Salah that your feet are actually swollen
and he answered so beautifully
and I think we should all be thinking of it
because none of our feet are swollen right now
yet we find it so difficult to stand
for one hour sometimes
may Allah make it easy for us
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us a lesson from the answer
of this most beloved creature of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
he says
should I not be a slave
who is grateful, who is thankful
to his creator
for the status that he was granted
subhanallah
so with him, he had the status
he knew it
he had this link with Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and he wanted to please Allah even more
so that's what made him happy
it made him happy when he could stand
and his legs were swollen
because of standing for his own creator
I want to ask a question
and a serious question
what makes us happy
let's be frank, let's be honest
if you struck a good deal
and today business was brisk
we become happy
if we are feeling healthy
and our sickness is gone
we become happy
if we have just purchased clothing
that fits us nicely
and it looks good
we become excited
this is what makes us happy
if for example we've purchased a new vehicle
and it's sitting there in the front
we're happy
masha'Allah
if for example we've won a ticket
to Hawaii or Honolulu
for a holiday
we're excited, we're happy
let's be honest
this is what makes us happy
if our salaries have increased
and our hours have decreased
we become happy
yes
now let's take a look at the lesson
that we have
from this blessed hadith of the Prophet
صلى الله عليه وسلم
yes, it is natural to be happy
at what I've just mentioned
but that happiness is momentary
it is just for a moment
it is not supposed to be prolonged happiness
the true excitement must be
when your legs start paining
and you're standing
and you say
Ya Allah, this is for you
Allahu Akbar
Ya Allah, if it was not for you
I would not even have dressed appropriately
Allahu Akbar
so when you are dressed appropriately
covering properly
and people are laughing at you
and calling you names
you need to say
Ya Allah, this is what makes me so happy
because I know you're writing
next to my name
rewards that will grant me
entry into Jannah
and Allah says
the criminals used to laugh
at the believers
in this world
the criminals used to laugh
at the believers
if you're dressed as a Muslim woman
one of the ways of telling
that you are dressed properly
is sometime in your life
someone will pass a negative comment
or someone will laugh at you
or someone will say something discouraging
then you know you've dressed properly
Subhanallah
because that's Allah's plan
and I'm talking here
of when you were living
in a non-Muslim country
and sometimes even from amongst
our own family members
they discourage us
no, you're too young
to cover your hair
don't cover it now
wait until you grow
how are you going to get married
they're not going to see
what the head and shoulders
look like in your hair
Allahu Akbar
may Allah safeguard us
this is the mentality
that people have
yet we don't understand
when we cover it
for the sake of Allah
it must make us happy
imagine
on one hand
we got the example
of the swollen legs
what is that example
compared to just covering properly
Allahu Akbar
may Allah use us really
in His cause
and may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
accept us this evening
to make a resolution
that we will dress appropriately
come what may
and may Allah make us from those
who can make a resolution
this evening
that come what may
we will fulfill our five salah
for the sake of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
it is not worth leaving it out
I was thinking moments ago
as I was getting up
that for myself
it has rekindled the link
with Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to make mention of
how everything began
and the creation of Adam
alayhi salam
and the stories of the prophets
not to say there was no link
but we rekindled
the link
and we want to keep that fire going
we want to keep that light going
I wonder if it is the same
for all of us
that we have this link
we feel that really
we are going to return
to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
this evening inshallah
we will be completing
the story of Adam
alayhi salatu wa salam
with a few details inshallah
and thereafter
we will continue tomorrow
with the stories of
the other prophets
of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to start with
this Quran
we need to understand
as I had made mention of
at the end of yesterday's talk
that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
we will send for you reminders
and whosoever turns away
from the reminders
they will be resurrected blind
if you recall
we made mention of it
and we read the verse
which happens to be in surah Taha
and thereafter
there is a point
that needs to be highlighted
what did the kuffar of Quraish
used to say at the time
of the prophet
salallahu alayhi wa sallam
when the Quran was being revealed
they knew that anybody
who listens to this Quran
they are automatically inclined
towards it
one is to look at the face
of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam
is already a turning point
you need a little bit of sincerity
and you are turned
and after that
to listen to the words of the Quran
it melts you
Allahu Akbar
today there were so many verses
that were read
and I was thinking to myself
I wish I could pause
to translate some of those verses
one of them
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
O man, if Allah wills
He can delete you
and replace you with others
if Allah wants
He can wipe you out
and bring others
in another place in the Quran
Allah says the same thing
that if you are not going to worship Allah
if you want to turn away
from Allah's worship
He does not need you O man
He can actually delete you
you know how powerful
is that word delete
imagine if someone had to tell you
I'm going to delete you
and you look at them and say what
you probably take your gun out
for them in this country
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
safeguard us
and here Allah is saying
He's explaining how independent
He is and how dependent
we are
He says
if I so will
I can actually delete you
and I can bring others
may Allah never do that to us
so that's a powerful verse
another verse that we mentioned this evening
that sometimes
in order to please people
and to seek status
we please people
in the displeasure of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and Allah says
do they want to seek
that status
with those people there
in the displeasure of Allah
let them know
it is Allah alone
who owns the dignity
and the status
if Allah wants
He can raise you
and if He wants
He can drop you
there is no point
in pleasing people
in the displeasure of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala
rather
if the people are displeased
while Allah is pleased
then Alhamdulillah
we are heading in the right direction
so the Quran
I'd like to make mention
of a very interesting story
at the time of Rasulullah
salallahu alayhi wasallam
the kuffar of Quraysh
sent one of the most eloquent
from among them
to the prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
in order to try and tell him
that you know you better stop
doing what you're doing
this was in the initial stages
and we don't want you
to sway our idols
we want you
to take what you want from us
but stop preaching all this
that you are preaching about
one God
and one creator
and supreme maker
why did they decide this?
because they were materialistic people
for them
what made them happy?
when they had power
they were elected as chairman
they were elected as someone big
they became happy
that was the height of their life
and I normally say
when someone has got to a peak
and they tell me
I've got to a peak
I say does that mean you can die now?
you've achieved what you wanted to from life
with us, no
the peak will only come
when Allah decides
we, for us as Muslimin
we should be happy
when we are obeying
the commands of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
so these kuffar
they decided
let's go and make him some offer
he'll accept one of the offers
so they made him a few offers
the one went to him
and he says
and he was an eloquent man
O Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
we want you
to leave what you are saying
if you want
we can get you married
to the most beautiful of women
if women is what you are looking for
look at how they are thinking
if wealth is what you are looking for
we make you the wealthiest
if power is what you are looking for
you can be our king and our leader
what is it that you want?
we will dish it out to you now
but stop saying what you are saying
and Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
said the famous saying
wallahi
if you are to put the sun in my right hand
and the moon in my left
and then you are to ask me to stop
what I am saying
I'll never stop it
what that means is
give me what you want
give me that which is impossible
this is a mission
I have come with
then he began to read verses of the Quran
that surah
he continued reading it
until he got to a place where
he made mention of
the punishment of the previous nations
this was the verse
he got to this verse
he says
if they are going to turn away
then warn them of the punishment
that got to Ad and Thamud
at this stage
the man puts his hand
on the mouth of the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
and blocks it and says
stop, stop, stop, stop
that's enough
why?
he did not want to hear the punishment
then he ran back to his people
and says
oh my people
he went back to Abu Jahal
and the others
and he says
you know what
I have heard something today
recitation
I have heard
it is so sweet
it is so beautiful
it is so correct
it is so apt
it is something that you just feel like
continuing listening to
and it has so much in it
and so on
and it is definitely not the speech of man
they looked at him
they said what?
we sent you to tell that man
to get out of what he is saying
and you come back telling us
you are almost convinced
he says no, no, no, no
I am only letting you know what I heard
I am not convinced
look at this
look at what happened
now what happens to us?
we listen to the Quran
we read the Quran
we understand the message of Allah
are we not sometimes being cheated
the same way
by Shaytan
where we say
it is a beautiful Quran
I enjoy listening to this Sheikh
and that Sheikh
and this person
and that reciter
and MashaAllah
this one and that one
but how much are we following it?
what is the point of getting
the enjoyment of the ear alone
that was achieved by the kuffar as well
I can tell you a true story
I had stopped one day
at the traffic light
with the Quran
a little bit loud
I don't want to call it blasting
but MashaAllah
it was loud
and there were people
right next to me
they looked at me
and they said
you know they like
sort of putting their thumbs up
and I put it down
to talk to them
they said I love your music
what music is this?
so it shows us that
if we are going to stop
at the soothing of the ears alone
then that happens
to the kuffar as well
what's the difference?
we are supposed to be
taking it further
and putting practice
to what we listen to
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
open our doors
and may He grant us
a deep understanding
so this is why
at that time
they did not want to hear
any revelation
Shaytan had a plan
and that plan was
he was going to turn people
away from revelation
and this is why
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
the disbelievers used to say
do not listen to this revelation
don't listen to the Quran
make noise whilst it is being read
because as people were listening to it
it was piercing their ears
it was piercing their hearts
and it was going in
they were digesting it
and they were turning
as they were turning
the kuffar did not know
how to stop it
didn't I say yesterday?
that man needs spirituality
in order to complete himself
and in order to be content
so as the people were turning
they did not know what to do
so these kuffar of Quraish
the leaders started saying
don't listen to the Quran
this is why
one of the biggest sins
we can have
is when Allah has sent down a book
and we are stopping people
from trying to understand that book
from reading the book
and we are discouraging people
from trying to understand the Quran
that is one of the biggest sins
we could ever have
because Allah promised
Adam alayhi salam
right at the beginning
that I am going to
send you guidance
and every time guidance comes
whoever follows it
will be rightly guided
and whoever doesn't
then it is them to blame
so may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us a deep understanding
so from the beginning
there were two forces
hizbullahi and hizbushaytani
there is the force of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and the force of the devil
these two forces are very clear
in our lives
we see it from the very beginning
we are lucky
we are fortunate that we were told
how it started
and what the root of it was
it is so really
so soothing to know the beginning
because now we can do something about it
we do not have to reinvent the wheel
it is already there
we believe, we have seen
we have these verses
that are recited for us
so Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
speaks of these two forces
from the very beginning
and we need to understand
not only that
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
mercy to all of us
He goes a step further
what is that step?
He teaches us from the beginning
how to protect ourselves from the devil
powerful verses of the Quran
Allah says
oh children of Adam
we are all included in this
do not let the shaytan lead you astray
or do not let him overpower you
or overcome you
or cheat you
or test you
in the way that he did with your forefather
Adam
and his wife Hawwa
he removed them as a result
from the goodness that they were in
so Allah is warning us
Allah tells us be warned
and over and above that
we are taught
the last part of that verse
Allah says
shaytan will not be able
to be a protector for those who believe
he can only be a protector for those who disbelieve
he can offer them this sort of
false protection for a moment
we ask Allah to make us the true believers
and to make us from those whom Allah has protected
now if you take a look at shaytan
and what he did
and the fact that
he had removed Adam and Hawwa
from Jannah
he removed them from Jannah
by conning them
this happens to us on a daily basis
Allah says
if you ask Allah's protection
you will never ever be led astray
so every morning
and every evening
it is our duty to ask the protection
of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
we are taught
listen to the verse
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
oh messenger
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
say
invoke Allah
call Allah
with the following words
say
I seek Allah's protection
from the whisperings of the devil
and I seek Allah's protection
from these devils
even coming into my presence
isn't that a powerful dua
we will find it in surah al-mu'minun
towards the end
and this dua should be read by us
on a daily basis
we are seeking the protection of Allah
from the devil
and his whisperings
and we are seeking the protection of Allah
from the devil
even coming into our presence
because we don't want him
to come into our presence
what a powerful dua
in a hadith
the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
speaks about
the power of ayatul kursi
and I am sure we all know it
off by heart
but we have to read it
every morning
every evening
thrice in the morning
thrice in the evening
in another narration
the power of the last two surahs
of the Quran
is being made mention of
قل أعوذ برب الفلق
قل أعوذ برب الناس
they are known as
المعوذتين
those two surahs
wherein we seek refuge
in Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
from so much evil
we need to read these surahs
three times in the morning
three times in the evening
now what does Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala say
a verse we read this evening
إن كيد الشيطان كان ضعيفا
the plot of the devil is very weak
shaitan's plot is very weak
and if we are to seek
the protection of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
it won't even affect us
it won't even bother us
so it's important
once we spoke about the devil
that we also speak about
how to be protected from the devil
it literally creates a metal armor
around you
when you read this early morning
and every evening
for the rest of the day
and the rest of the night
and shaitan will not be able
to harm you and attack you
there is something known as the evil eye
that is also from the devil
there is something known as jealousy
there is something known as envy
that is also from the devil
we will be protected from all this
we will also be protected from the magic
that people want to engage in
and the black magic and what have you
all this we will be protected from
including being protected from
the jinn kind at large
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us a deep understanding
for your information
jinn kind is very very frightened of man
very very frightened of man
but when we show a weak link
then he gets excited
he gets excited
you know it reminds me of a story
maybe on a lighter note
we could mention this
they say there was a man
who was very soft natured
very very soft natured
and when he was getting married
the people were worried
that your wife is going to
control you completely
your wife is going to
he says so what should I do
they gave him an idea
they said first night
get a stick
and we will release a cat into the room
and as soon as you know
you walk into the room
when the cat appears
you must just put your head gear
on one side
and start beating the cat
until you kill it
and then throw it out of the window
like a man
and that is the only thing
you are going to need to do
he says well that is fine
on the other hand
his wife was hearing
that you know you have got
such a soft natured husband
you are so lucky
so what happened first night
they released the cat
and the plan worked
he beat up the cat
and she was scared
looking at him
this is not what I knew him as
and the cat died
and he threw it out of the window
and he says no
I am sorry about that
he cleansed everything
and it was all back to normal
every day he would say
I would like you to do this
or else
or else what?
Subhanallah
or else as soon as he says
or else she is worried
that or else I will get that whack
you know
just like the cat
until some time later
she went back to her family
she went back to her friends
but you people told me
this man was soft
they said no
try defying him once
see what happens
you see we are talking here
of the jinn
and how weak the jinn is
so what happened is
he says
I want you to have the tea
ready at 7 o'clock
or else
she says or else what?
or else I will have it ready
Allahu Akbar
we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to grant us protection
and understanding
really
so
how we feel
that shaitan
and the devil is strong
wallahi he is weak
defy him
and see what happens
defy the devil
I am not saying
the husbands are devils
but
what we are saying
subhanallah
is that we need to
learn a lesson
when we have a perception
that something is stronger
than us
we tend to be overcome
by it
why?
wallahi it is weak
it is something
that is frightened of us
let us understand
when we defy this devil
and with the Quran
and with the words
of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
it will run away
getting to the children
of Adam
alayhi salatu wassalam
how did they come about?
it is a question
Hawwa may peace be upon her
she gave birth
20 times
each time
there was a boy
and a girl
subhanallah
they were of
different colors
different shapes
and sizes
in the sense
that you know
the looks were varying
from one to the other
and so on
and at that time
there had to be marriage
so
how were they
going to marry?
they had a different law
they had a different sharia
Adam alayhi salam
how did he become a prophet?
that is also a very
important question
for us to understand
initially
he was the father
when he had his children
he began to
remind his children
of what happened
in Jannah
and what happened
with the devil
so automatically
he was a Nabi of Allah
he was
he was reminding them
of the beginning
and who Allah is
and how
we must worship
Allah alone
because he is
the sole creator
and how the devil
cheated them
and got them
out of paradise
so they all knew
directly from
Adam alayhi salam
that this is what happened
and Adam alayhi salam
was giving them
da'wah
he was literally
calling them
towards goodness
and keeping them
on the right track
so as the children grew
one of the oldest
children was
known as
Qabil
in the English language
Cain
and the one younger
than him was
known as
Habeeel
or Abel
in the English language
we find some similarities
in the previous revelations
with what we also
have in Islam
so what was the
difference between
these two
listen very carefully
Cain was not
so good looking
and Abel
was very handsome
listen to this
and
the sister of Cain
was very good looking
but she was
born
in the same
or from the same womb
so those two
were
what we call
womb
brothers and sisters
from the same womb
and when it came
to Abel
he was very good looking
but
his sister
was not as good looking
look at how looks
affected them
from the very beginning
so
Adam
instructed the two
when the time came
and they
Allah put
naturally in them
the inclination
towards marriage
and partnership
and so on
so Adam
says
you will marry
the sister of this one
and this one
will marry the sister
of your
meaning your sister
so Cain
his sister was
very good looking
he looked at this
he was supposed to
marry
and he says
she's not that
good looking
and why must I
give my sister
to this guy
why
imagine the question
I don't want
to give my sister
if we read
the books of the
historians
has made mention
of what I'm saying
he says
Cain says
I don't want
my sister
to go to him
and I don't
want to have
his sister
I'd rather have
my own sister
he's saying
through his mind
and as a result
it created a problem
look at how
marriage up to today
creates problems
between people
the hadith
the prophet
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
says
if a proposal
comes to you
from a person
whose level of
deen
you are happy with
and whose character
then get them
married
if you don't
get them married
there will be
lots of chaos
on earth
imagine
from the beginning
this happened
so
Cain was worried
about looks
and he says
I'm not going
to marry her
now as the
turbulence continued
they went to
their father
the father heard
about it
he was upset
he tried to
explain to them
and he made
dua to Allah
and Allah showed
him a way out
what was the way out
Allah says
instruct the
two of them
to give out
a charity
instruct the
two of them
to give out
a charity
and whoever's
charity is
accepted
will be
correct
now what
happened
this is made
mention of the
Quran
in the
Allah says
O Muhammad
sallallahu alayhi wasallam
recite to them
the story
of the two
sons of
Adam
with truth
when both of
them gave their
sacrifices
and it was
accepted from one
not accepted from
the other
the question is
why was it
not accepted
it is very
interesting
we are going
to draw a
lesson from this
the one who
was a
shepherd was
able
he came with
a good
animal
there were
no poor people
at the time
there's no poor
to give the
charity to
so the
plan at that
time
what used to
happen is
they used to
put the
sacrifice on
the mountain
and then
they would
go away
when they
come back
they would
see the
fire has
eaten one
or the
other
when the
fire has
eaten your
and the
other brother
came
the one who
was fighting
and arguing
he was a
farmer
he had
produce
he brought
not mediocre
produce
but that
produce that
was now
almost
rotten
and he
put it
there
and he
says
right
this is
the sacrifice
and they
went away
so one was
not
going to
give what
you want
but at least
try to give
something which
is reasonable
so for a
voluntary charity
you can give
second-hand
clothes you can
give a little
bit of
left over food
and so on
no problem
because it is
going to be
made
use of by
someone under
privilege
that is a
voluntary charity
but when
it comes to
Zaka
don't take
the best
but don't take
the worst either
take that which
is mediocre
the middle
so when we
are giving
let's not
give the
stock that
is expired
and say
that's my Zakat
I'm going to
deduct it from
my Zakat
how
it's expired
you rather
give it as
a voluntary
charity
give that
which is
good
Allah will
accept it
go and
find out
ask people who
are following
other churches
happily they
come and
say no this
is 12 percent
10 and
another two
from me
and with us
it's only
two and a half
percent and you
find a
man scrounging
saying you
know what
are you sure I've
got to give
Zakat on this
you know
do I really
have to
may Allah
open our
doors
the other one
wasn't
listen to
the verse
he looked at
his brother
and says I'm
going to kill
you now
why do you
want to kill
him when
he was
accepted and mine
wasn't
now I want to
kill him
for what
again this is
shaitan's
plan
don't look at
the root of
the cause
or the root
cause
but go and
just blame
someone
decided right
I'm envious of
this man
firstly he's good
looking
secondly he's
going to
get a wife
who's
very good
looking
thirdly
his wealth
is accepted
and he's
a nice
farmer
he's got
all this
you know
livestock
and he's
so happily
living and
so on
why is it
that I am
not
he became
some
parents
ignore
and wallahi
we need to
go home
look I'm not
going to mince my
words
we need to
go home
and ask
ourselves
are we
guilty of
this
without
knowing
subconsciously
I always
believe
people are
good
shaitan is
bad
do you
know
sometimes
shaitan
is more
intelligent
wallahi
and this is
shaitan's
plan
and the other
child
cannot
talk
they are
depressed
they cannot
open up
to anyone
I have had
so many
emails from
people who
have this
problem
and they
can't
make mention
of anything
and I say
should I
talk to
your parents
and
make sure
we don't
fall into
the trap of
shaitan
so let
not do
the same
thing
that he
did
with the
children
of
adam
where
because of
beauty
there was
big
chaos
and disaster
either
way
may Allah
grant us
understanding
of Allah
Allah will accept
the charity of
the one who
is conscious
of Allah
If you are going
to stretch your
hand to
kill me
I am not going
to stretch my
hand
or
to do
anything to
you because
I fear
Allah
our creator
who has
created
entire creation
and he
is the
lord of
the worlds
this was
the answer
of the
brother
but what
happened
this brother
was
adamant
and
shaitan
had taught
him how
something
very hard
either a rock
or something
very hard
and he
killed him
Allahu Akbar
he killed
his brother
as soon
as he
killed his
brother
he
sat there
looking
at his
brother
and he
started
regretting
why did
he start
regretting
that is
shaitan
as soon as
you do
when a
person commits
adultery
it's made
so beautiful
the run up
to adultery
is so
beautiful
if he
has
iman
or she
has
iman
as soon as
it's committed
there is
a guilt
in the
heart
straight
because now
shaitan
is gone
you feel
this is why
one narration
says
I don't
believe
but then
there are
people who
will commit
adultery
after adultery
and they
will continue
and go on
and on
there are some
on drugs
the first
two times
two three
times
they regret
after that
no regret
they do it
openly
one brother
was telling me
that when
they went
to the
shaitan
then may Allah
protect us from
shaitan
and I'd like to believe
that the brother
was telling a lie
because by the will
of Allah
we are not like that
we ask Allah
to open
our doors
once the brother
was killed
he looks at his
brother
and now
he went away
he went to
Adam
and he carried on
with the day
and Adam
asks him
where is your
brother
he says
my brother
I know
that there is
something wrong
this child is
hiding something
from me
there is something
wrong
now
later on
in the evening
he went back
to the body
and he's looking
at it
and the following
morning
he's looking
at this body
again
and now
it started
releasing a stench
and he was
remorseful
because of his
regret
he regretted
when he saw
these crows come
and the one
was digging
in order
to bury
the other
and it
dug
and put
the other
into the
ground
and covered
it
so he says
can't I be
like this crow
let me do
this
so he dug
a hole
also
and he buried
his brother
and so on
and he was
very very
remorseful
and thereafter
it is
reported that
he could
not really
go on his
back
and he went
quite far
and then he buried
it at a
bit of a
distance
now he had
gone
and thereafter
what happened
Adam
and his
wife
they had
many children
and as I
said
they had
40 children
20 pairs
and the
pair
were not
allowed to
inter-marry
but those
who were
the parents
so on
and he saw
some of his
grandchildren
and his
great-grandchildren
progeny
and his
offspring
and it is
reported that
he'd seen
thousands of them
thousands of his
children
and they had
gone
various parts
of the
globe
and so many
different places
they had
gone to
and Adam
used to
constantly
take
photos
and he
would
draw
and
take
photos
and he
used to
go
to
the
temple
and
go
to
the
temple
and he
would
take
photos
and
see
photos
and he
would
take
guide the people and as time passed it became more difficult because they were
further away from Adam alayhi salam it's like for example when your father has
suffered to make his money and you were there watching him suffer and watching
him go through turbulence and turmoil it is easier for you to appreciate
that but when your children come and they've only seen wealth for them to
appreciate it is very difficult this is why wealth generally it's not an
but people who have Muslims who have studied have said it does not last for
more than three generations without actually depleting totally three to four
generations after that it has to deplete because Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has a
plan and his plan is such that wealth does not stay in the same hands for
long it will move and it will can it will go on and on
Allahu Akbar may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness and
contentment so Adam alayhi salatu was salam Masha'Allah he'd seen so many of
his children and he was grooming his children also to continue the message he
used to call them regularly and tell them that this is what you need to do
and that is what you need to do and so on and this is how Shaytan they
used to gather together and he used to remind them how Shaytan led him
astray and how Shaytan was very jealous and so on so there is something
for us to learn from this as well we need to gather our children and we
need to constantly remind them not only of our beginnings but of the
messenger of the message of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala how many of us have
sat with our children and told them do you know this is what Allah requires
this is how we should be dressing this is the benefit of this this is the
benefit of that this is the downfall that one will taste if they do this
and if they do that and look at this example and that example spend the
time with your children it is the Sunnah of the prophets all the
prophets may Allah's peace be upon them then Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
makes mention of something very interesting again where Adam alayhi
salatu was-salam got sick he got ill he got ill at a certain stage and look
at Allah's plan Allah made him wish for something wish for what certain
fruits he had eaten in Jannah he ate some fruits in paradise he still
remembered the taste so he was wishing for it making dua to Allah
saying ya Allah I'm wishing for these fruits so Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala instructed him that at a certain place you will find something not that
you will find the fruits but at a certain place you will find something
but he was unhealthy he was not healthy enough to go there so he
decided to send some of his children he says go to that place and you
will find something for me there so when they went there they found some
angels a group of angels what did they have with them they were dressed
in white and they had some tools with them there was a pick and a shovel and
tools to dig now these tools were new to the children of Adam alayhi
salatu was-salam they looked these angels told the children of Adam we
are angels and we want you to go back to your father he is ill and his
time is up Allahu Akbar he is ill and his time is up so they walked
with the children of Adam alayhi salam back to Adam alayhi salam and as they
entered as they entered Hawa may peace be upon her she recognized this angel
is the angel of death the angel of death so she quickly started going
behind Adam alayhi salatu was-salam and he says no no no don't worry
move away I was created before you I was created before you he's going to
go he was not worried now why am I going and so on he was reminded in fact
he told the angel of death when he saw him he says but don't I have 40 more
years to go we made mention of this a few days ago the angel says don't you
remember you gave it to Dawood alayhi salam and he says no I don't
remember I don't remember and after he was reminded he says no problem
however he first gathered his children look at this he gathered his children on
his deathbed and he reminded them saying Allah will send messengers to you he
will not leave you alone he will send messengers to you and messages these
messengers will come different languages different names different dialects but
their message will all be one calling you to worship one Allah the one who
made you and to stay away from the devil and Shaytan and Iblis and to be
careful that the biggest crime anyone can commit is to associate a partner
with the creator and after he reminded his children the angels took his soul
away and he passed away and he passed away happily he was happy to go why
was he happy to go very interesting I think that's a lesson when I was
reading about it really it brought tears to my eyes he was happy to go
because he knew he is going back to that heaven that he came from he knew
he is going back to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and he was happy to go
because he had problems here on the earth he had tests he had
difficulties he first hunted for his wife then he had the problems with
his children and so on and now he had to taste death but that death was
getting him to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and from this there is a
narration Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala tells us through the lips of Muhammad
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
the gift of a true believer is death why you're going back to your maker
your creator there's no more inflation there's no more rubies
there's no more power cuts there's no more you know credit and debt and
people following you and running behind you and sickness and cough and what
have you everything ends it stops there is only justice and goodness and
for you is what you wish and what you want and what you whatever you
desire I always give the example of a child who works hard at school you
work very hard at school for what in order to get a prize so now how are
you going to get the prize if you don't want to attend the prize-giving
Allahu akbar you got to go there and then you will shake the hand and get
your prize if you don't go there how are you going to get your prize so
for us we've been promised lead salah you get this give you a zakah you do
this dress appropriately this will happen for you do that this will
happen where are we going to get all these prizes you need to go to the
stage where is the stage you need to die first and then you get to the
Allahu akbar Allahu akbar simple to understand but still when we die or
someone dies we become depressed and we start moaning to the degree that we
questioned what Allah's decree was how can we do that it is natural to miss
someone it is natural to shed tears of mercy because you're going to miss
them but we never questioned the decree of Allah whatever Allah does is
the best it is the best when Allah has taken a person away whether it
is in a car crash or after sickness or suddenly or whatever it is it is the
best that Allah could have done for that particular person we need to know
this especially as mu'mineen as believers so we should not depress
ourselves if they have gone we are going very very soon so Adam alayhi
salatu was-salam went when he went what happened the angels had come with
the tools they took the children of Adam alayhi salatu was-salam a
little bit of a distance and they dug a proper grave and they washed the body
of Adam alayhi salam with water they enshrouded him properly and they led
the Salah or the prayer the janaza of Adam alayhi salatu was-salam one
narration says that Jibreel instructed sheaf to lead the Salah and
another narration says the angels themselves led that Salah only Allah
knows but the Salah was done and he was buried and once he was buried
the angels looked at the children of Adam alayhi salatu was-salam and says
had he he Sunna to come this is the way you shall do it when anyone from
amongst you passes away so that is how we were taught to enshroud and to
leave a gap I was speaking to someone a few moments ago in fact a
few days before Ramadan and we were talking about how amazing it is that
the grave of a Muslim you have a gap you have a you are enshrouded in a
shroud and then you are placed in the grave and the wooden pieces or the
bricks are not put on you but there is a gap and then quite a big gap and then
there is the wooden pieces and on top of that is the soil subhanallah do you
know one of the benefits of that is it allows for the decomposure of that
body in the soil because of the presence of oxygen in that hollow if
there was no oxygen what happens let me tell you what happens look at the mass
graves in the globe when the people are buried and the sand is straight on to
them what happens you find the bone even after a thousand years you might
find some of it has not yet decomposed because the it is all there
still the skulls are there everything is there whereas if you bury
Islamically the proper way by leaving that gap who knew that there would be
oxygen trapped in there which is needed for that to decompose
Allahu akbar Allahu akbar so now that it decomposes completely you dig it
back up nine months later there is nothing remaining there
illah ajba then up the hadith speaks about the last small little portion at
the bottom of your spine the conical the little cone shaped bone part of it
remains and that is the seed of man from which you we will grow as I
made mention of the other day so this is how we are to be buried where were we
taught from we were taught by the angels from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
amazing story we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to grant us a deep
understanding the question where was he buried it's a question some
narration saying he was buried fill hint it's close to where he had
descended whereas other narrations say that he was buried in Mecca by the
mount known as Jabalu abi Qubais just outside where the haram is now he was
buried somewhere there but Allah knows best all we know is he was definitely
buried and I had spoken about sheath alayhi salam being another Nabi of
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala inshallah we will get to more of the stories of
these messengers the last question I have is how many messengers were
there how many messengers of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala we don't know
the exact figure in the Quran 25 are mentioned in the Quran there are 25
names of the messengers but some narration of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi
wasallam makes mention of different figures the largest of which is 124
thousand imagine 124 thousand messengers we don't know really whether
that figure is correct but we have a rough idea that there are so many the
Quran says
there are messengers Oh Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam whom we have told you
about and we've related to you their stories and some whom we have not even
told you about which means there are so many only Allah knows the exact
number may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a lesson until we continue
again inshallah tomorrow we say